# Setting up project.md
Assuming that we have already installed Express generator api. 

The first thing we need to to is to type in the following command in terminal and let's name the project VEFT

```	
	express-api VEFT & cd VEFT
	npm install
```

After this we should have new folder called VEFT and been moved to it. The folder structure should be as follow.


```
.
|
|-- bin				
|    -- www							* Create of server and other things related to it. 
|
|-- node_modules					* node installed dependancy for the project. ( after npm install )
| 									
|-- routes							* BACK END OF THE PROJECT IS ALL HERE
|
|-- app.js 							* Here we have configure of the server, what to use and more
|
|-- *
|       Other files are used for e.g. grunt, npm "package.json" and other .md files.
*
```

Now for our own sake we would want to add consolelog at the bottum to our bin/www file for our port. Meaning everytime we start the server we see what port the server is on, just in case we change it later.  

```
	function onListening() {
	  var addr = server.address();
	  var bind = typeof addr === 'string'
	    ? 'pipe ' + addr
	    : 'port ' + addr.port;
	  debug('Listening on ' + bind);
	}

	console.log("The server is on port " +  port);
```

After this we should try to type npm start in our terminal and see if everything is as it should be. Then we should get something like this in our terminal.

```
> VEFT@0.0.0 start .......
> node ./bin/www

The server is on port 3000 <------ the added line in bin/www
```

Now that we have our basic setup ready and added consolog on the port in bin/www our next set is to set up the folder sturcture to our own need. by adding few folders named config, library and sqlSchems. I wanted to state that this is something that I think is a good practice and if you feel that you want to have different kind of folder structure then that is fine. But we will stick to this one for now. 

Note that I often add more into this folder structre e.g. data, readings, documentation and test. Let me explain what I use these folders for before I explain the folder structure we will work with. 

In the data folder I have predefined data that I want to put into postgres if I want to clean the database, then I can drop everthing and juse "node filename.js" command in terminal to run the file and populate my tabels again. 

For the reading folder I put material that is useful for developers of the protject to read if they are new to the project or just want to refresh their memory on some things that are used. Little snippeds and explanation that I do not use in the documentaion and links to libraries that is used and so forth.

For the documentation folder I have all the extra documentation for the developers that is what we have done in the project that is not from some libraries we are using. 

For the test folder I have all the tests that have been written for the api, this is something that we know already but I am not sure I will write test, but focus more on connection to postgres, how to use it, authentication and so on. 

Now that I have explained how we can make our folder structure to make the project much easier to navigate, again this is something that we find out for our self and how we want to structure our project. Lets make the folders that we will use in this project. Lets type in terminal.

```
	mkdir config library sqlschems
```

Lets look at why we are making those folders. 

The config folder is thought to have all the configuration that we will use e.g. database url, secrets, mail and more.

The library folder is thought to have all the helper function that we will use, meaning we will make our own library to use all over in our routes, this can e.g. help us to encapsulate things better and make it much more easier to have our code reused.

The sqlschems folder is something that I like to have the schema of the database ready so that if running on local database everyone can set it up with out any problems. I al so have back up in there. We will look at this later on. 

Lets look at our folder structure now. 

```
.
|
|-- bin				
|    -- www							* Create of server and other things related to it. 
|
|-- node_modules					* node installed dependancy for the project. ( after npm install )
|
|-- config 							* Configuration for database and more. 
|
|-- library 						* Our library that we use in the project.
|
|-- sqlschems 						* database.sql file and backups.
| 									
|-- routes							* BACK END OF THE PROJECT IS ALL HERE
|
|-- app.js 							* Here we have configure of the server, what to use and more
|
|-- *
|       Other files are used for e.g. grunt, npm "package.json" and other .md files.
*
```

All that is left is to set up user table in postgreSQL, assuming you installed PostgreSQL. Then we can use pgAdmin, I have pgAdmin 4. To do this we need to create server in the tool by opening the tool, on left we see Server(1)->PostgreSQL. Lets right click on PostgreSQL and choose Create->Database and name it VEFT. 

Now that we have made our database named VEFT we can right click on it and choose Query tool. When we do that we can paste this little code below that we will use for our project. 


```
CREATE TABLE users (
    id integer NOT NULL,
    resettoken character varying,
    tokenexpired timestamp with time zone,
    name character varying,
    email character varying(80),
    username character varying(60),
    hash character varying,
    admin boolean,
    phone text,
    address text,
    moderator boolean,
    active boolean,
    companies integer[]
);
```




At this point we have finished with setting up the project with postgres and added one table, lets move to next step.

