3. Dependencies
Now that we have finishing setting up the basics of our project. Looked into little example on how we can use package.json in development and got the server up and running as basic starting server. Our next step is to look at the dependencies we are using. If we look into our package.json file that is in the root of the project folder. Then it looks something like this. 


```
{
  "name": "VEFT",
  "version": "0.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node ./bin/www"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "bcryptjs": "^2.3.0",
    "body-parser": "~1.13.2",
    "cookie-parser": "~1.3.5",
    "express": "~4.13.1"
  }
}
```
For this project we will need to depend on few other things.

*  [bcryptjs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcryptjs)
    
    If we look for tutorials online on how to make tokens, we will often see that the tutorial uses crypto-js in the project. However we will use bcryptjs. If we look at things we will soon see that yes bcryptjs is slower then crypto-js, but we need ask our selfs. Do we want speed or do we want to be more secure? 

    Most often we want to have speed, that's what the user wants. How ever when looking at security and the cost in speed is some ms, then everytime we choose security over the speed. The use of bcrypt will be slower and the reasone is that it does slower and more computationally expensive hashing, it will generally be for hashes where you really don't want an attacker to be able to reverse the hash (the password). If this is of no consirn then we could go with crypto. But it takes few minutes to hack same password with crypto-js vs years on bcryptjs. 

```
    npm install bcryptjs --save
```


* [express-jwt](https://github.com/auth0/express-jwt)

    Express-jwt is a middleware that validates JsonWebTokens and sets the req.user.* 
    This module lets us to authenticate HTTP requests when using JWT tokens (Json Web Tokens) in NodeJS. Where JWTs are used to protect API endpoints and authenticates callers. If the token is valid, req.user will be set with the JSON object decoded to be used by later middleware for authorization and access control.  

```
    npm install express-jwt --save
```

* [jsonwebtoken](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jsonwebtoken)
  
    JSON Web Tokens (JWT) are an open, industry standard RFC 7519 method for representing claims securely between two parties. JWT allows you to decode, verify and generate JWT. Go to [official JWT website](https://jwt.io) for more information. You can also use the debugger there to look at your token. 

```
    npm install jsonwebtoken --save
```
* [lodash](https://lodash.com)

    Lodash makes JavaScript easier by taking the hassle out of working with arrays, numbers, objects, strings, etc. Lodash’s modular methods are great for:

      1. Iterating arrays, objects, & strings
      2. Manipulating & testing values
      3. Creating composite functions


```
    npm install lodash --save
```
5. morgan

```
    npm install morgan --save
```
6. nodemailer

```
    npm install nodemailer --save
```
7. nodemailer-smtp-transport

```
    npm install nodemailer-smtp-transport --save
```
8. pg

```
    npm install pg --save
```
9. babel-eslint
```
    npm install babel-eslint--save-dev
```





```
    npm install bcryptjs express-jwt jsonwebtoken lodash morgan nodemailer nodemailer-smtp-transport pg --save
    npm install babel-eslint --save-dev
```


```
{
  "name": "VEFT",
  "version": "0.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node ./bin/www"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "bcryptjs": "^2.3.0",
    "body-parser": "~1.13.2",
    "cookie-parser": "~1.3.5",
    "express": "~4.13.1",
    "express-jwt": "^5.1.0",
    "jsonwebtoken": "^7.1.9",
    "lodash": "^4.16.6",
    "morgan": "^1.7.0",
    "nodemailer": "^2.6.4",
    "nodemailer-smtp-transport": "^2.7.2",
    "pg": "^6.1.0"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "babel-eslint": "^7.1.0"
  }
}
```